Hello and welcome.
This lecture I want to provide another example of the decorator design pattern implementation.
In this example we're going to write our own Java I O director decorator input output so let's go out
and create a project.
This is gonna be a little bit more relatable than our previous example which is really just demonstrating
at a high level really simple example of a simple additional method implementation
so we'll call this decorator example to
so the decorator that we want and write that will add functionalities to Java input output is gonna
be a decorator that converts all uppercase characters to lowercase in the input stream.
So for example if I read in a string that contains either capital or lowercase the decorators convert
that to all lowercase write the component the concrete components in the abstract decorators will have
already been defined for us from the Java Io package.
So the abstract component is the input stream class the concrete components include the file input stream
in the byte array input stream then the abstract decorators for all input streams as the filter input
stream class.
So we're gonna just add additional functionality because remember I mentioned before that one of the
best examples of the use of the decorator is in the job Io package and a lot of it's already creative
force again the component the concrete component the abstract directory so if you remember from the
slide from last time the illustration is we have the abstract director decorator is the filter and clustering
and the abstract component is the input string so all we need to do is we need to first extend the filter
input string class and override the read methods.
OK so we're going to go ahead and create a new class and this is gonna be called our lower case input
stream
and this is going to extend the filter input stream so here we can say extends filter input string and
so what we need to do is we need to implement to read methods that take a bite an array of bytes and
convert each base each byte that represents a character to lowercase if it's an upper case character.
So we're gonna have our constructor first which is going to
take an input stream and we're just gonna call that in at a for readability add a slight space and then
we'll just say super and we'll say super in our next method is gonna be the the read method.
This is the one we're going to add new functionality to so public in 3D it's going to throw an IO exception
it's a checked exception.
And we're just going to say N C equals N not read it and we're going to return a lowercase for that
character.
So we're just gonna do a ternary operation here we're gonna say if c is equal to 1 I'm sorry negative
1 we're then gonna say c is equal to we're just gonna return c otherwise we're going to convert the
character to lowercase using the character class so to lowercase and we're gonna cast the C into a char.
It's on like that.
We're also gonna override the read that takes a bite.
So we're gonna say public int read.
That takes a by
by be offset and offset
and add Interlink.
And this is also checked exception.
So we're gonna throw Io exception.
We're going to set the result equal to whatever read n so we're gonna call the B offset linked
right and that's gonna call the input stream read method to actually do the reading.
Then we're gonna have a for loop that goes through the offsets
and we'll convert do the conversion.
To here we're just say piece of I it's going to equal to to this casting byte and then the character
to lowercase is the character class
to lowercase that will take
by cast the two which are something like that.
And then we can return the result.
So now we need to use the decorator.
So we're gonna create a client
we'll just call this client and this will have our static void main.
And this decorator was particularly easy to implement because we didn't have to implement any of the
concrete components the component or the abstract decorator we just added the decorator itself so we're
gonna say in C in our main and we're going to try to just read something and I'm going to have to create
a file as well so we'll say protesting but first we'll just read in some input
so we're gonna say input stream in equals new lowercase input stream that's our decorator and we're
just gonna create a file test out text.
So here I'll create a file
say new
test text and this will just contain some stuff with capital letters
something simple.
Now we can go back to our client and again what you notice is that opens out file it then tries to read
in the bytes of the lower case input stream.
Class and prints out the bytes and lowercase so we then need to close the file and we also need to enclose
this and try catch since it's frozen exception
in dark clothes probably could've gone in my nose.
You could go there and say put it until finally but we then can just say I want to make sure my brackets
are correct.
You just say catch I owe exception
and we'll say it print factories
and that is our client.
So now let's see if we can run this thing and then we'll find the file correctly.
So when we do a run
couldn't find the file.
So I have to make sure it's in the right path.
I mean one sec I want to make my life a little bit easier instead of adding a whole new resource folder
and adding a new text file.
I'm just going to create a string buffer pass that is the input stream for testing purposes.
So what I'll do is I'll create a string buffer and we can convert that to an input stream.
And so I don't need to do all the path stuff for all to path stuff.
Absolutely.
So many create a string buffer.
I'm going to convert that to bytes and I'm going to use the bytes to act as an input stream so I can
then pass it into my lowercase and blistering.
And again this is just this may be a Cluj but it's just some quick for testing.
This isn't the point of the decorative design pattern so I'm not worried if there if this is the best
way to do something.
So this is what I'm gonna do.
I'm going to create a string buffer contains some lowercase and uppercase.
Convert the bytes and then convert it to an input stream so I can pass it into my lowercase in the string
so I don't have to use a file.
I deleted the file.
I don't have to use a file and I have to worry about path and adding things to resources and so forth.
Something quick.
So now we can try to build this and we run it.
We notice that all the string was converted to lowercase so this was a quick example the decorated design
pattern extending the job Io functionality we didn't have to do too much.
We were able to just create a concrete decorator and extend it because the filter input stream and the
components and the abstract decorator they were all already created for us right.
So that was a nice benefit.
The abstract component was the input stream the concrete components included file input stream the binary
input stream and the abstract decorator or for all the input streams of the file on stream and that's
why we extended the abstract decorator thank you.